# IDV-exploratory-viz

My exploratory viz project will be a family tree. Rather than approaching exploration from a broad perspective, i.e. pulling hidden trends or conclusion from a large dataset, I'm interested in setting up a visualization that allows for exploration of a relatively small but information-rich dataset. My audience is about 75-150 family members who are all implicated in the data but are familiar to varying degrees with this tree -- some deeply involved in compiling and researching it, others who know only about their immediate relatives. The scope of the tree is the descendants of my great-great-grandparents, Mary Hutton and James Biddle. 

The project is inspired by a 90-person family reunion that I attended in 2019, during which I learned an enormous amount about my family history from various sources: a static family tree on paper, anecdotes from family members, and seeing various permutations of "family" standing together for group photographs. My aim is to create a visualization that provides both an interactive tree of the family and also an opportunity to compile more qualitative data associated with particular people or branches. Some functionalities I'd like to have include a dropdown menu to filter by date of birth, generation, or last name, and a tooltip that allows for an uncluttered base visualization that can also provide much more information. A major design point for me will be accessibility, since I know many of the people most interested in the content will be older and largely unfamiliar with this kind of technology.

One larger question/goal is about visualizing this network in a way that considers and questions the inherent assumptions of a family tree. What are the parameters by which this is considered "a family"? Is there a way to visually include (or at least allude to) other branches of my family, the family members of people who are not direct Biddle descendants but married in? These may end up being explored more fully in the narrative portion, which I imagine as an extension of this project, but they are already in the front of my mind. 

My dataset comes from a handwritten family tree, which is on the way to me in the mail so that I can finish making a digital dataset as a JSON file. 